docs/guides/what-is-amphora.md, before:

---
id: what-is-amphora
title: What is an Amphora
sidebar_label: What is an Amphora
---

An Amphora is a shareable data container. You can put whatever data you want in an Amphora. It has standardised metadata to enable easier and faster sharing, search and management.

The name Amphora comes from the [Greek vessels](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amphora) for storing and trading agricultural goods.

## Introduction

History has shown us that containers are key to improving sharing and usefulness of commodities. The Amphora was the first standardised trading container and started a tradition that continues to todays 40ft container. 

Recently technology has started to use containerisation. Docker is a well-known example and includes 40ft containers in its logo, leaving no uncertainty as to what inspired it.

We have taken the same concept of standard containerisation and applied it to data. 

Furthermore, standardised containers gets halfway around the tricky problem of different data standards. Data standards are great but technologists shouldn't wait for standards to develop and innovate. Amphoras can contain any type of data from any standard so you can use any type of data you need.

## Technical defintion


## Impact

The impact of using Amphoras is three fold. You can 
* Instantly share and trade data
* Reduce the risk across your data estate
* Reduce data integration effort

This is all possible due to the Amphora container structure.

#### Sharing

Sharing data, whether with known collaborators, commercial partners, or third parties on the otherside of the world increases its usefulness. Amphoras are instantly sharable on the Amphora Data platform. You can share data for free or monetise it. You can share data with everyone in the world or just a select few. 

#### Risk

Risk management in data is important to everyone. This includes privacy, security, access, and usage considerations. Using the Amphora structure enables you to set strict restrictions on who can use an Amphora and how they can use it. It also gives you a clear low effort framework to manage data quality and model governance.

#### Integration

Integration is far simpler to set up and maintain with Amphoras. Firstly you can easily find and connect the specific data feeds you want. Secondly, as all Amphoras use a single modern API, you can use the same ETL jobs to pull data. Lastly Amphoras enable you to connect disparate and siloed datasets within your organisation without the cost of creating custom infrastructure.

Commit message:

docs: added technical definition of Amphora

docs/guides/what-is-amphora.md, after:

---
id: what-is-amphora
title: What is an Amphora
sidebar_label: What is an Amphora
---

An Amphora is a shareable data container. You can put whatever data you want in an Amphora. It has standardised metadata to enable easier and faster sharing, search and management.

The name Amphora comes from the [Greek word](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amphora) for the ubiquitous vessels made to store and transport agricultural goods.

## Introduction

History has shown us that containers are key to improving sharing and usefulness of commodities. The Amphora was the first standardised trading container and started a tradition that continues to todays 40ft container. 

Recently technology has started to use containerisation. Docker is a well-known example and includes 40ft containers in its logo, leaving no uncertainty as to what inspired it.

We have taken the same concept of standard containerisation and applied it to data. 

Furthermore, standardised containers gets halfway around the tricky problem of different data standards. Data standards are great but technologists shouldn't wait for standards to develop and innovate. Amphoras can contain any type of data from any standard so you can use any type of data you need.

## Technical definition

An Amphora is a container for data similar to a [shipping container](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Containerization) or a [Docker container](https://www.docker.com/resources/what-container). An Amphora is a standardised unit of data hosted on the Amphora Data repository. Using an Amphora, you can standardise metadata, apply access controls, track and report usage, distribute and monetise your data, monitor ETL activities, govern derived models, and more. You can interact with an Amphora using the web application, API, or via one of our SDKs. You must have an account to access data.

## Impact

The impact of using Amphoras is three fold. You can 
* Instantly share and trade data
* Reduce the risk across your data estate
* Reduce data integration effort

This is all possible due to the Amphora container structure.

#### Sharing

Sharing data, whether with known collaborators, commercial partners, or third parties on the otherside of the world increases its usefulness. Amphoras are instantly sharable on the Amphora Data platform. You can share data for free or monetise it. You can share data with everyone in the world or just a select few. 

#### Risk

Risk management in data is important to everyone. This includes privacy, security, access, and usage considerations. Using the Amphora structure enables you to set strict restrictions on who can use an Amphora and how they can use it. It also gives you a clear low effort framework to manage data quality and model governance.

#### Integration

Integration is far simpler to set up and maintain with Amphoras. Firstly you can easily find and connect the specific data feeds you want. Secondly, as all Amphoras use a single modern API, you can use the same ETL jobs to pull data. Lastly Amphoras enable you to connect disparate and siloed datasets within your organisation without the cost of creating custom infrastructure.
